In the last part i explained the different
types of loops. In this part i will talk about
conditions. We actually already talked about
conditions, when we talked about the loops,
because the middle part of our loop, the part
that defines how long the loop is running,
is a condition. In this case the condition is x
should be smaller or equal 10. And these kinds
of conditions can help us run certain bits of our
code only when certain criteria are met. And to do
this, we have the IF command, inside the brackets
here we can now define the condition that needs to
be met before the code inside the curly brackets
is run. For example we could say, okay, everytime
when x is equal 1, we want to fill our circle red.
If i would save this, everything would become red,
because x is met at the first circle and we know
the code runs from top to bottom, and as we don't
change the fill color afterwards, it stays red.
So what we need in this case, is we want to match
everything else besides our first condition, to do
this, there is the ELSE command. Now inside those
curly brackets we can target all elements that
are not equal one, here we can now say fill zero.
And now only the first circle is filled
red and all the others are filled black.
There's another version, if we for example
want an additional condition on our x,
then we can write ELSE IF. Again we can define
a condition and we have some curly brackets to
define our filling here, we want to fill it green
and this time we want to target the last element
in our line here. So we want where x is equal
10. This should become green. Now we have two
conditions and something that matches everything
that hasn't been matched by the conditions before.
And of course there are other conditional
operators than equal. We already had the smaller
or equal sign, let's use five here, so we want
everything to become red that is smaller or equal
five. Of course we can not only use the smaller
than sign or we can use the bigger than sign.
Notice that the green circle disappeared,
because our conditions are run from top
to bottom and as soon as one condition is met
the rest of the conditions are being ignored.
The last one is the NOT five, so
this condition says every time x IS
NOT 5, this should be used. In this case,
everything besides 5 should be rendered red.
Okay so let's take it a step further. This is very
simple we have one condition, on one variable that
we are using to apply different fillings. But we
can also use different conditions combined with
one another. To show this, i will add our nested
loop that we had before and create a grid to make
it a little bit more interesting. And add the Y
variable here. Run this to see if it works. Nice.
For example, there is the AND operator.
The AND operator allows us to match
two conditions at the same time so in our case
i only want the middle dot in the most upper
row of points, therefore i write, i want it where
X is equal five and Y is equal one. And if i save
this, the red only appears in the upper row. In
addition to AND there is also an OR operator.
For example, we could say, we want everything
green that is either x equals 10 OR y equals 10.
And then we have the last column as well as the
last row turning green. And using these kind of
IF statements, you can now build very complex
drawings that have certain conditions met and,
thereby, modify certain attributes or colors
or values inside your drawing function